# PyCitySchools Analysis

This repository contains a Jupyter Notebook which performs an analysis of school performance in the fictional PyCity district. The analysis includes calculations and visualizations to understand key metrics such as district summary, school summary, top and bottom-performing schools, scores by grade, school spending, school size and schools type.

## Prerequisites:
Make sure you have the following installed on your system:
- Python (https://www.python.org/)
- Jupyter Notebook (https://jupyter.org/install)

## Steps to Set Up and Run the Jupyter Notebook:
- clone the repository.
- ensure you have Python and all required packages install.
- run jupyter notebook. Open the PyCitySchools.ipynb in your browser.
- run each cell in the notebook to perform analysis and generate visualizations.

# Analysis Sections:

## District Summary:
- Calculates and displays key metrics for the entire district, including total schools, students, budget, and average scores.
  
## School Summary:
- Provides a summary of each school, including school type, total students, budget, per student budget, and average scores.
  
## Top and Bottom Performing Schools:
- Lists the top 5 and bottom 5 performing schools based on overall passing percentage.
  
## Math and Reading Scores by Grade:
- Analyzes and displays average math and reading scores for each grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th) at each school.

## Scores by School Spending:
- Breaks down school performance based on average spending ranges per student.

## Scores by School Size:
- Analyzes school performance based on school size, categorizing schools as small, medium, or large.

## Scores by School Type:
- Creates a summary of school performance based on school type (Charter or District).

##References
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

Feel free to explore and modify the notebook to suit your specific needs or datasets.
